---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Intro
---

My sister was the first person to pique my interest the term "open source" to me. She had just gotten an internship at MongoDb and was discussing the attributes of the company. I had of course heard of "open source" previously. A bunch of large companies are open source, such as Adobe and Google, but to me the word had no meaning until my sister first described it. When I see the word now, the term is equivalent to having the source code freely available. This means that people can use and modify the code as they see fit without infringing on copyright laws. 

There are of course advantages and disadvantages to open source software and closed source (proprietary) software. I think the main difference is because open source is freely available it becomes harder to charge people for software. Thus most open source software is free. Moreover it is because the code is out in the open that anyone can fix issues and add new features. Thus the availability makes it desireable to get more perspectives on a project. While both may seem like advantages of open source, it is likely because an application is open source that it may get less attention by the owners (as it is likely not making a profit unless it has other ways of funding). 

To me, it is the opportunities that open source provides that makes me want to learn more about it. This idea that anyone can edit the main code of a project truly amazes me. How does it work? What knowledge should the user know while editing the code? How often can a company expect an outsider user to fix bugs or add features? These are questions I hope to get a better understanding of after this course. 

I think another reason why open source amazes me is the number of programs I'm currently using that is open source. For example...
1. Every programming languages I currently code with is open source. Java, C, Python, Swift, etc. is all open source. For obvious reasons these popular programming languages are in fact open source, as it would be quite hard to spread the languages if it were proprietary. 
2. I think another open source project I must then talk about is MongoDb as it is one of the open source companies I've learned quite a bit of through my sister. Mongo's quite interesting because it brings a new approach of database storage to the conventional SQL storage. In fact, it is leading in the sphere of No-SQL. However, I also find Mongo interesting as it breaks convention and turns an open source project into profit.
3. Many libraries are also open source. One of which I am quite familiar with is D3.js, as my past internship involved using it extensively. D3 stands for Data-Driven Documents and it is best described as a data visualization library. 
4. Another part of coding that I must credit to open source are the text editors. For example, Visual Studio Code, Atom, Sublime, etc. These are the backbone to coding and are all open source. 
