---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Speaker/Evalaution
---
This week I will talk about the talk we had with Vicky Steevens on Monday and the future projects I plan to explore in the coming semester. 

# About the Speaker

Once agin we had the opportunity to listen to guest speaker Vicky Steeves discuss about open data. One thing that I always learn in these talks are: resources. Something that I wouldn't have known about was OpenData week where participants can go to community-driven events organized for free by the city of New York. Ofcourse, while this would be exciting to attend, it also conflicts with HackNYU and the coronavirus scare. 

Vicky continued to talk about other events like Hacktoberfest where in a month if a participant contributes to five open source projects, they are awarded a T-shirt. Its things like these that amaze me about open source, the sense of community and the fact that it only exists because the combined effort of everyone involved.,

Another thing that Vicky discussed about was why she perferred open sources versus proprietary software and this made me think of Kevin P. Fleming's talk about the tools that they use which tend to be open source. This just makes me think that because open source tools are typically fueled by the need for it and thus created. Rather than being privatized, it is a chance for you to share and contribute to resources that not only help oneself, but everyone. 

# Future Projects

Do I know what I want to do? Yes, I have some ideas, I brought up the idea of MongoDB in class and did another evalaution on it this past week. It definitely looks like an interesting topic with NO-SQL being so important to storing the world's data and MongoDB being the leading company at it; however, as stated in class MongoDB is difficult to contribute to simply by how active and how difficult it is to find issues in which I can meaningfully impact. While I will definitely be on the lookout for some possible issues I can contribute to at Mongo, a project that I will definitely be interested in is something involving social networking. Although I haven't done too much in social networking open source projects, I heard someone raise the idea in class and I would like to look into it.
