---
layout: post
title: Week 12 Covid 19/Group Project
---

This week we discussed different open Covid 19 open efforts that we've been researching. I will also dicuss our group meeting involving Gatsby.js


# Covid 19 Open Efforts
There were some great resources provide by my classmates on different covid 19 projects around the world. I think in a time as tough as this, and a problem as universal as our current situation, it really means a lot with the open covid efforts. This isn't a problem that just affects a single group, or a single location, it is a global pandemeic. Thus, it only makes sense that we address the issue at a global scale. Therefore, open efforts are probably one way we can give back to the community. Whether that be spreading awareness through data tracking or using 3D printers to print face shields for the healthcare workers in the frontline, right now its not about an individual's economical advantage/disadvantage, but rather an effort to keep as many people as possible healthy and reduce risks as much as possible. 

The projects that we have in the group pad listed [here](https://pad.riseup.net/p/OpenEfforts_COVID19) shows some resources that we scourged through the internet. An interesting one that I noted was shared by Matt and it was a [website](https://covid.deepset.ai/home) "answering any questions about coronavirus by drawing upon trusted resources". The [Github](https://github.com/deepset-ai/COVID-QA) has some more nitty-gritty of how they use machine learning to grab the resources. I think this is a prime example to show how just spreading awareness is part of the solution. While computer science isn't as direct as the medical workers in the frontline, we're able to provide other resources like something as simple as awareness to get as much prevention as possible. In the end of the day, this is the ultimate goal, one more person not affected by the virus is a potential life saved.

Some interesting projects I found given bay Carsen was this [dataset](https://github.com/beoutbreakprepared/nCoV2019) project which is an open dataset created by the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington and contains various types of data based on individual patients, etc. I think resources like these are incredibly useful for computer scientists, because we can use these to create amazing projects that could help towards the Covid effort.

# Group Project
This week we worked on our first (relatively) major issue in the Gatsby.js contribution effort. After some research, we had picked out [this issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/14213). Setting up the environment was a bit difficult (and may still not be completely ironed out), but we currently have it in GitPod. This way hopefully, Eva, Emmett, and I can work on the issues together when we have the time. So, while the issue is relatively simple, I think the problem is locating the root of the issue. The code base of Gatsby.js is quite massive. I believe it is around 300k lines of code, so its not simple to just look through every line to find the root of the issue. A major amount of our time is spent looking and finding where the issue is located. Also, the extensive code makes it quite difficult to understand the code we're looking at because so much of it builds off one another. 

We ended up eventually finding the root of the issue being a warning that we'd want to report on a page creation: "Warn when creating too large a pageContext, as this may be a sign that you're passing data via context". Therefore, our solution is to strignify the page.context object and find the length of the string. This should (in theory) give us the bytes of the context of whatever is on the page and thus allow us to warn if the page creation is too large. I think this is a viable solution, but currently I am looking into a better solution that involves getting the bytes of the page instead of just the text. Because right now we cannot calculate the actual bytes of the page, but rather the length of a string and converting that to bytes. I'll keep the blog updated on our progress, but that's it for this week!

