---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Evaluation
---

# About Browser Extension

The most prominent comment that we received was that : "Your live log is a bit sparse - I am not really convinced that you spent time working together". And I definitely agree that we could have more time working together. Despite this being our first project, we had already learned the importance of teamwork and open source. The objective of working in a group is to create an assignment that isn't solely dependant on one person. Furthermore, while a group project doesnt necessarily mean that our group needs to work in one location, we could have kept communication more active. While we can push blame towards our third group member that had dropped the class, keeping us in the dark, we should have instead taken more initiative to try to keep communication strong. An issue that I realized during the project was that when there was an issue that I could not figure out working on the project, I didn't tell my partner until later. I should have stated it outright in the live log, so maybe he could had taken a look. This lack of communication meant that our project was stalled, not only in terms of the project-but also my individual contrabutions. You can see from our live log and our commits that most of the work that we put into our project was in the last 16 hours. This is a really scary fact, as we had an incoming deadline where we needed to present a "finished" product. If communication was on point in terms of the live log and among group members, we'd definitely have managed our time better and possibly produced a more refined final product. 

# Evaluation

I learned that many of the projects have very clear ways of accessing license, contribution, readme, etc. These are all important to any open source project and should be clear to get. I think the biggest challenge while going through the project was just understanding what was happening. Going in there without prior knowledge on the project made it so there was a lot of code that I didn't know what was happening. And I think this will be the struggle with any large open source project. My future project that I hope to work on will require many more hours observing the code to understand the purpose of the lines of code.

# Learning and Future Projects

I think from the most part, our failure is what I learned the most. Of course, the issue that I had faced was a good learning experience (from viewing my group member's code); however, I think what I can takeaway is that time management is crucial to any successful project. I think if there's a project I want to work on next, it'll be one that has active contributers and developers. This way it'll encourage communication to the team and provide actual usefulness instead of the lazy style we had approached our extension project.

# Guest Speaker

Similar to our previous guest speakers, I think Kevin Fleming's greatest contribution was just informing. The information of how open source affects large companies like bloomberg allows us to see potential projects or jobs that we may want to look into. While a lot of the projects he mentioned is very specific to Bloomberg, the usage of the tools and Bloomberg's contribution to open source materials are global. I think my perspective changed as I think that most large corporations would avoid contributing to open source, as it is harder to streamline that into a profit. However, Fleming notes that its not just about making money, but a lot of time it is dependant on the need for a product by even Bloomberg developers that causes the creation of the open source product. 

# Contributions 
I've added a few contrabutions to Openstreet Maps, I definitely could add more to Wikipedia or even our class website 

