---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Gusets
---

I think, more than anything, the guests Deena Engel and Vicky Steeves gave us opportunities. They explained the opportunities in the position of open data, and pointed us in the direction that we could head in such a large field. With the utmost relevance of data in our modern day, interpreting data has not only become a bussiness, but also a necessity. Firms are dominated by customer statistics, sales, etc. The benchmark of success, is determined by how well a company can interpret data. Thus, when we discuss open data, what we must also how companies interpret and use this data. This discussion led Deena to many of the programs that are used in deciperhing and connecting data together. 

I think a discussion that I was most interested in was on the different forms of SQL. SQL stands for Structured Query Language and is used to communicate with a database. Thus, it can be assumed that this is very useful when talking about data. While I've worked with MySQL before, I never knew about the pros and cons of MySQL vs PostgreSQL, etc. Furthermore, there's a genre of database communication where the data is not even structured, NoSQL. A company like MongoDB is dedicated just for this unstructured database.

Overall, I think the biggest takeaway from the guest speakers are the number of software and programs they introduced. Sites like the one where you can search open sources of large databases are examples of ones that I will likely be using in the future. Therefore, these speakeres turned out to be a good learning experience, to push my in a possible future revolving data.
