---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Extension 2
---

This week we presented our completed extension. We ended up being able to implement our word-to-pet browser extension that finds all instances of certain words and replaces them with SVG images. Although I can't imagine it being an incredibly useful browser extension, it's a fun light-hearted project that gives me an introduction on how to create extensions. I'm quite glad and sort of surprised we actually managed to complete this assignment considering last week we had made very little progress. I think the issue was that I didn't know how I should be implementing the code in JavaScript, and thus stuck on moving forward. However, this is why working in teams is so useful. My other group member was able to figure out how to replace text with SVG images. With this, I was able to incorporate the extension aspect of it, so that the buttons would work on certain words. I also added a reset button to reload the page and remove all instances of the SVG image.

I think this was a clear displayment of teamwork, as there were issues that I had run into where my other group member was able to help out on, and vice versa. This is very different from many of my past projects, which were strongly individual-based--a nice change in pace. Something I learned is that you can directly set an image text and its attributes into a string and directly display it on the screen. I had thought we needed to delete the string, and create a blank to then put the image within the blank. 

I enjoyed seeing what other people had done with their projects. Many of them were very creative and many had a lot more usefulness than our project. For example, the weather browser extension or the dice browser extension both goes to show that even with simple coding knowledge, we can already create extension that serve quite some purpose. 
