---
layout: post
title: Week 11 Standup/Wikipedia
---
This week we had a Standup Report about our group project and I'll be discussing more about how Wikipedia plays a role in my life

# Group Standups

I think the biggest takeaway from Wednesday's standups are that there are groups that have accomplished quite a lot. Some people have already addressed many issues and I feel like we will need to start tackling our issues as well. Ofcourse, because our project, Gatsby.js, is a larger, constantly-maintained, repository, we'll find less so much of issues involving say a typo. I think something that our slow progress stems from is that Gatsby.js is just so massive, so its hard to get a bearing of where we should contribute. [Marcy Sutton](https://twitter.com/marcysutton), someone I mentioned last week as the lead engineer at Gatsby, recommended us to look at the pair programming session, where we could have the opportunity to address an issue with a Gatsby team member. I think we should definitely take advantage of this opportunity because it is not common that companies have the resources to provide these free pair programming sessions. It will also be a great opportunity to meet more members on the developing team at Gatsby, as well as let them know who we are. However, before we do that I think we want to figure out some easier issues on our own time. For example, we want to look at one that invovles a [warning](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/14213). This is considered a low effort issue, so hopefully we can manage without the need for pair programming. I think as we move on to harder issues, we will decide to address the community more. 

# Wikipedia
The impact in Wikipedia on my life has been quite extensive. As a child, we're often told not to use Wikipedia as a resource for our papers because anyone can edit it, but now looking back we can see how vital Wikipedia actually is. Its a massive resource that could only be brought together by the Open community. Of course, there will be those who put false information, and I assume that is what our teachers in the past had wanted us to avoid. However, we see that most of the information on Wikipedia is backed by resources and refrences, making the information typically fairly trustworthy. I use Wikipedia most often as a starting point on any research. It usually gives me a broad overview and if I need more specifics, I can go to the refrences the Wikipedia page uses. These refrences can lead me to ideas from other research papers. I think this is probably one of the better strategies of approaching Wikipedia, because this way we tend to avoid the information that isn't at least backed by another source. 

So far, my contributions to Wikipedia have been mostly involving going to random articles and researching them. I find that these random articles tend to lead us to fairly sparsely-filled pages, which means there's still a lot that can be added if we use other resources. Yes, its true that whatever I put will probably rarely be seen, but I think even these smaller pages will need at least some of the attention that the more populated pages get. 
