---
layout: post
title: Week 10 Bazaar/Gil Yehuda
---
This week we had a dicussion on a reading by Eric S. Raymond called [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/) and we also had [Gil Yehuda](https://www.linkedin.com/in/gilyehuda/detail/recent-activity/posts/) a senior Director of Technology Strategy at Open Source Program Office at Yahoo come in as a guest speaker

# The Cathedral and The Bazaar
I think the reading provided a lot of insight onto what open source is and more broadly how a computer scientist should look at any project. Many of his dicussions were quite universal and could be used in many aspects of a project, sometimes not even confined to that of computer science. As with any project overview there will be pros and cons using the bazaar strategy over the cathedral, but I think this was a good introduction that allowed me to see the possibilities of how to approach a project. I think that there were many different topics talked about, but my biggest takeaway from our dicussion is that there are many perspectives of how one could take a line in The Cathedral and the Bazaar. The bazaar model allows developers to get frequent comments from the users and thus allows constant updates directly from the consumer. However, other people can argue that sometimes this is not ideal and thus must use a Cathedral strategy for their projects. 
# Gil Yehuda Talk
We see in Gil Yehuda's talk that Yahoo is focused on developing their own open source projects where other people can introduce ideas to their own projects. This sort of mirrors Kevin Fleming's (From Bloomberberg - see week 5) in that they create open source projects depending on their company's needs. We were able to see Gil's contrabutions towards his company and the projects he has worked on in software engineering. A big takeaway that Gil discusses is how to get a job in open source and the fact that open source is not limited to fun on-your-own time projects, but rather can be a job. This is very important to me, as this could be what I will be doing in the future. 
# Group Project
#### As I discussed last week, I was planning on sending a message to Marcy, and I did! 
Below is what I sent: 

Hi Marcy,

A couple of classmates and I are NYU undergrads taking an open source course and are looking to contribute to an open source project. We stumbled on to Gatsby.js and although we are fairly new it, we found it quite amazing how it is able to reduce a complicated website into only static files. We looked into a couple of issues on Gatsby’s Github and have some idea on what we might want to work on. However, before we start anything, we wanted to get some tips or recommendations from someone on the team. Any advice would be much appreciated!

Thank you,
Eric Wu, Eva Ding, Emmett Hannigan

#### Her Response: 

Hi Eric,

We would love to have your contributions in Gatsby! We have some contributing docs on our website, including a section with tips on Docs Contributions, which might be good starting points. In general, issues in the GitHub repo labeled `help wanted` are great things to pick up. I know the internationalization effort is ongoing too, so issues tagged with `topic: i18n` might be ripe with opportunities.

Here is a link to our contributing docs: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/how-to-contribute/

Marcy Sutton (she/her)
